[Music]
so
foreign
[Music]
hey
yes to all the viewers who have joined
us today for the first time this is
second lecture or this is the second
program in this series
wherein we are trying to capture abdul
sankar abu tankan's
experiences
or the time that he has spent with
mother
uh the session two will be having a
short meditation session q a
then again a small meditation session
and then we will end the session
uh
jaish
the session with a small meditation
session
can we all just
raise our kundalini
and put ourselves up
and just
put our right hand on the heart
say a small player
dearest holy mother
let your blessings bestow upon me
through your holy vibrations
and let your holiest of all holiest
names be always in my heart
[Music]
and please forgive me if i have offended
you in any way
through my thoughts words
or deeds
and make me aware of it
and please give me courage to forgive
others as you have forgiven me
and let your divine vibrations teach me
to love others
and not have a feeling of malice or
hated for anybody
and last but not the least
i'm thankful i'm really grateful
for all what you have done for me
and pray that your blessings will keep
showering
on this ignorant child
forever and ever
men
slowly raise our kundalini with our
right hand
very slowly
about the head take it as much for
possible above the head
we do it three times
and we'll just close
keep our eyes closed
put our attention on sahasrara
keep it there for some time
[Music]
and this small meditation with a prayer
to shimataji
kindly
make us good instruments
of the divine
so that the divine can play
beautiful notes
on the flute of our body
please give me this hollowness
complete surrendering
in complete oneness
with your cosmic body
beautiful meditation session
we'll start a session from here to
everyone
who's joining us for the first time
there is this is a series of sessions
that we're doing with Avdhut uncle
this is the second session in
that series the link to the first
session can be found in the
description
of the link that you're watching right
now you can also find it on
uh our channel which is sahaja yoga
online meditation
uncle uh like the last time i would like
to start the session with some photos
Mayank is it possible to put up some
photographs the remainder of the
photographs that we had
[Music]
this was the photo taken in 1978
on marve beach
near
bombay
uh near mumbai
as i told you last time we used to go
there
quite often
and with some sahaja yogis Shri Mataji told
us to spend the weekend and suddenly she
also joined us
and
as i told you before Shri Mataji  always
used to
crack jokes
and make us laugh
this was one of the photos which i got
as a present from one of the
my brothers and sisters from abroad
so this was a
session of photos in
Rahuri
in 1983
so diva this was Dhumal uncle with
Shri Mataji
okay i've heard that mother had spent a
lot of time in rahuri were you able to
attend those sessions back in rahuri with
mother
yes yes it was this was
in 83 but i was there in 79
also 79 i don't exactly remember how
many times i had been there
but previously the maharashtra tours
used to start from rahuri
okay the agriculture college in rahuri
mother has spoken about that in multiple
yes but Dhumal
uncle used to live near the station of
rahuri
and
Shri Mataji  used to come and stay with him
at least when i was there she was
staying with him oh
nice nice Mayank we'll go to the next
photograph next one
so at that time as i told you Shri Mataji  used
to
give us the possibility of
taking photos with her
and
this is one of the photo
you can see next one
as is the same
uh Shri Mataji had kindly had allowed us
brother and sister
uh to
take photo with her
is that your sister
yes she is meenakshi from uk
i got married in 85 and she got married
in 83
and since then she is staying in the uk
london okay she's your real sister uncle
yes
wow
We were just two
The entire family was in Sahaja yoga ?
yes yes yes
oh very nice
this photo
uh
i got as a present from!warick
uncle whom i told about
and when i came
to france
we were very close
very it was a really close-knit family
and this is one of the three photos
which existed at that time
which was on the passport of Shri Mataji
when Shri Mataji went to the to the uk
first time in december 73 and
one of them was given to Warick
uncle and he gave me his own photo and
that time you could not make uh
you know copies and all that so he gave
me his own
later on i
made a
digital copy of it so that everybody can
see it
so next
this was in 1990
in Montfermeil ashram
in paris
so i was taking down the Shri Mataji was
giving
indian names to the western sahaja yogis
and i used to write those down those
names and she used to even tell the
meaning of the name
okay why would she give indian names to
for western sahaja yogis what would be
the reason for that
many times like
she used to give the names which are
very much
uh
corresponding to
to that person like for example very
elderly lady
in Mulhouse in east of france she was sort of
the first one she gave a name adya
adya means the first one the
primordial
and then she used to give
names with uh
like somebody is called mayank and he
seems
give some name with
and starting with m
and
for
some reasons
these names
obviously corresponded
to
the person like for example there is one
sahaja yogi in
paris
and Shri Mataji gave him the name kabir
but his name is
a ronan
and
he used to play a lot of music
he  played music he made lot
of poems on Shri Mataji a lot of
[Music]
songs so he was like a kabir so
srimati gave him the name kabir
so all these names which
Shri Mataji gave have some um
meaning
it was not but just by chance
let me just tell you whatever happened
with Shri Mataji though we if we thought
it was just
by
chance like in france we say
par hasard no
nothing was by chance you will see
afterwards
nothing was left to chance everything
was very well organized who should come
in front of her who what should happen
everything was decided
if that answers your question
yes yes yes uncle i decided in the sense
who would decide it would be the divine
planning it would happen of course or
somebody who decided
yes so in 1988 Sahasrara
puja in  Italy Shri Mataji
said that how it was decided in the
heavens before Shri Mataji came down on the
earth
so she gives a full detail of what what
the full details of
what  was
decided you can listen to the talk not
only that but you will see later on
who has to come in front of Shri Mataji
who should not come
everything is
of course it’s Adi Shakti who decides finally
like it's very easy to understand
if a
a president from a very small country
goes to another country
before he lands there all his spies
all his people
with snipers and everybody goes there to
see if the the place is nice and for his
protection for his
guidance (security) everything is taken care of
should we shake his hand
should he say namaskar everything is
taken care
so if this could happen with a small
president of a small country
when Adi Shakti comes on earth
everything is being taken care of
and everything what she says everything
what she
uh
i wouldn't say desires but her vision
everything will
it will be there
like just to give an example ganpatipule
started in december 85 but three
four years before she was  talking
about Ganpatipule
and the marriage - the first marriages
started in this
place which we saw the photo the last
time Nilambar
78 and Shri Mataji had already started
talking in
73-74
about these marriages so her vision is
completely very clear we will come to
that later on we can come to that even
in a talks we can see how she tells us
what can happen and all that so
everything is
[Music]
sort of arranged
now only our job is to become good
instruments
in her hands
does that reply your question yes yes
uncle yes uncle thank you so much for
explaining that yes we were in
uh
delhi from 10 to 16 of february 1979
in a place called ten ashoka road
and i think so these were all the men
there are some from delhi
and
some of you i'll just mention it quickly
uh left side sitting is
is me
on my left is venugopalan uncle whom
you must be knowing
then there is on his uh left is rai
then there is
mr singh
then there is one mr varma whom about
whom i
i told last time about the sweater
who is sitting  at
Shri Mataji's feet on the right hand side
then
on the  left-hand
side of Shri Mataji is mr subramaniam
and there is mr cooley mr mathur
behind mr mathur is mr uncle gregoire
then there is lindsey
then there is the small boy is anand
on the right hand side of Shri Mataji
is anand's sister
sonu
then
i don't know the gentleman's name and
standing from the left is
ganeshan at that time
uncle gavin
then there is um
uh
ah
a very great sahaja yoga recently he
passed away
uh
i don't remember his name
then you can see the tall man is
[Music]
from
switzerland
no no he is from
australia
but uh
living in
russia
and then
there were some other people whom you
know
many people you might not be knowing
extreme right is um
with the beard is Rustom
dr bogdan yeah that's the name i was
searching for the
person who is seventh from the left is
with the mustaches is dr bogdan
very great sahaja yogi
okay so next
so
this is the
yeah the men then this is the photo of
the yoginis
some of you must be knowing
i don't remember this
[Music]
raul bai you can see on the
left hand side of Shri Mataji
then there is
her wife drua on
the right hand side of
raulbai behind
then
there is chaya
sitting on the second from the left
um
and i don't remember
unfortunately i'm sorry but
uh
there is
i think so this jane this picture was a
delhi right uncle yes this was some puja
correct me if i'm wrong
it could be just after the puja but we
were staying together from 10th to 16th
of february
in a place called ten ashoka road
and there used to be
a pandal
in the morning time it was sort of free
in the evening time at about
6 30 we used to have public program
till 11 11.30 night
it'll come afterwards i'll tell you
something more about it which year was
this uncle 1979
and i just wanted to mention also that
uh first i mentioned the first time Shri Mataji
caught me smoking she said did
you smoke that was in the year uh 1976
uh
5th or 6th of february
thank you thank you so much just give me
a second uncle i'm just looking for the
puja that you spoke about this was on
10th to 16th of february right uncle
yes
and there are some photos with the
havana
i think so
there was  also holi festival
i have i've got a link of this photos
of some of the pujas i can send it to
you you can see all those
sure uncle photos we'll do is we'll
share the link uh
in our third session
okay anyone wants to have a look at them
they can look at the photos separately
there are tremendous amount of
vibrations in the photographs
and
trying
just sitting with my hand open i can
feel it. Yes very true
okay we'll start with our q a session
yes so
the last session ended with uh multiple
experiences that you shared
so
this time around uncle i'll ask certain
questions that i had in my mind and
and then probably anything that you can
recall we'll try and share that with
everyone who's watching
right now
so uncle
first and foremost i wanted to ask you
you know
uh
if mother you know was able to tell or
judge you know if something
if something is going on in your mind
without you know we even telling her
yes would you like to share some
instance on that particular front
it's two
two very strong instances which
a lot of instances happen but
like in 78 i was in neelamber
and i used to take care of
the (collective)
money part of it as far as the
shopping was concerned the newspapers i
used to go with the  the cook to
buy vegetables and all those things
and at that time we had some
yogis from abroad
and  Shri Mataji told me to because i was
fully available she told me to take them
to different places
like museum elephanta caves marve
i don't know many many places like take
them to some films you know so that they
will not be sort of bored
so i took them everywhere and
they were i don't know something like
eight or ten
and it was rather hot
and
at least for the foreign sahaja yogis
and they
used to feel thirsty we used to go
to the restaurant to drink
limca ( a cold drink)
and
some of them for some reason thought
that
everything is free
and
they while going out
they never had the habit of paying for
that limca
and
this
restaurant fellow used to tell me uh
these two people they are not paid
that time link cost
50 cents
50 paisa
and i used to pay from my pocket i was a
student and
i just had my pocket
money and then i told my father that all
the pocket money is going in this limca
they said no no no you should not ask
them for uh
money anything let them not pay
they are like guests they are our gods so
okay it's your money
so
i shelled out quite a lot of money from
my pocket
and 79 when the
we can call them foreign sahaja yogis
but
sahaja yogis  from abroad when they came
everybody had some or the other role to play
and nothing was given to me
i was quite surprised i said i don't
know why
then i realized
that the leader of that time had um spread
some rumors or something
saying that Avdhut
he
pocketed some
collective money
he
sort of not stole but he did some
he did not keep the accounts properly
i felt like laughing
in fact the
the reality was just the opposite
but of course i did not say anything
and then there was a public program in
borivali
and uh
that time Shri Mataji
told us you go to this place you
know this marve we saw this photo
said
Avdhut and
there was uh some other sahaja yogi will
take care of him then she said
uh
Avdhut you should not
spend anything
from your pocket
and she told them how do they spend a
lot of money from his pocket don't allow
him to spend money from his pocket
and she
she said they've got a lot of money they
will pay for their expenses
and it was like uh you know she was
giving a clean sheet to me
saying that what
it was just the opposite and so many
people were there
and from that time i knew that whatever
you do if it's clean some or
the other some
time it will certainly come out so there
is no
problem about that
again i'm repeating
before 2011 after 2011.
okay
so this is one of the things which
the allegations were proved to be false
and nobody had told Shri Mataji this is one
main thing then also second time what
happened was in
mahakali puja 82 lonavala
my father was taking care of all the
financial aspects and i was helping him
there was a bag with all the money
inside that time we were
having this
cash
so my father said go and just count how
much we got and everything and i think
so the puja was on but i was
doing that
and then uh puja finished and he came
back the
money is gone
and i was really so
much moved
they said okay we'll just go and inform
Shri Mataji  and then there was
one gholap uncle from bombay
my father and me we three went
and we went to Shri Mataji we
went to the another bungalow
shri mataji was sleeping
and
she was about to
you know
somebody was massaging her feet or
something and he didn't want to disturb
her
so we told uh
just in front of her
door we prayed to her
and we came back
everybody we were all staying together
and everybody was quite surprised who
could take the money everybody said you
take see our bags and this and that
and my father said no no we have told
Shri Mataji  and she said i will take care
of it
then we slept i could not very much
sleep but anyway we slept and in the
morning when i got up
i saw that the money is there back
there
it seems that
some yogi in uh
how do you say
he had some
ill ideas
and then he had taken the money and then
gave back the money
so just to tell you that even if you
tell in front of the photo in front of
her
it's as effective as when we tell
sometimes when we tell
physically it's not that effective
our connection with her is not there
so these are the two things we can tell
okay i just wanted to know you know uh
if there is any instance that you would
like to share
wherein a mother you know
would shower share a love for her
children
you know so many times something that
you would have experienced personally or
you would have seen someone yes someone
if you know any instance you would like
to share
last time i told about this uh i met
Shri Mataji  in the lift and about my
head it was hot and all that
but uh one instance very much i remember
it's so hard to forget
we in bombay we used to have all
everybody get the milk from our Aarey milk
colony at that time there was no
private or anything
and uh
once they  were on strike
and
i had to go to Shri Mataji's house for
giving some things
and
they
somehow at about 10 o'clock they got
some milk from some
private you know
they had some private cowshed owners
so they had some milk
very small amount
and about ten o'clock they were taking
the first tea
and
they brought and it was a small cup
you know a small cup of tea
i don't know even if it was half
and
i was just sitting on the ground and
Shri Mataji put half of it in the cup saucer
and gave me
i cannot tell
what i felt
i was not very much fond of tea i said no
Shri Mataji
i don't want she said no no take
and she gave me half of that
so really how much she really loved us
from
heart i mean
she loved all of us
all of us it's just not me i don't think
so it's just me or some people
she gave love exactly the same to
all of us
secondly
once i
i was
i wanted to to play judo
and uh i uh
bought this you know they have the
kimono just some dress
and i was in Shri Mataji and so i said i
want to go now so she said where i said
after judo classes she said no judo classes
it
spoils the chakras no judo
i said but
i have got uh this kimono and she always
used to say if samudrat fekun de meaning
said it in the sea - throw that
kimono in the sea
and uh
she said no no you can do exercises if
you want but no judo so these are very
small instances where
Shri Mataji
helped us to understand many things
any other pointers that Shri Mataji would
have said no to
judo seems like a very uh
very weird thing to say no to uncle so
anything else that you know
mother would suggest that this is not
good or that is not good any specific
instance that you would like yeah see
how she corrects her children keep
hearing about probably drinking and
smoking in all these habits but judo is
something like a
new thing that i've heard so anything
else that you would like to share uncle
where she has said no for certain things
yes um
of course
you mean to say just physical exercises
or anything else
the exercises physical exercises front
anything that she has said no no for
example i'm just
asking from guidance perspective
from you know i told because i was this
you know must be knowing in india in
bombay there was Talwalkar’s gymnasium
very famous
matunga
so i told i am doing
gym and judo. She said gym you can do
but other no
but for other things
she she
[Music]
like for my mother she had told
my mother to walk bare feet
on the ground every day morning
there is also one another
talk recently i saw Shri Mataji saying
walking is good for sahaja yogis
but
to my knowledge
anything
uh
which is done obviously this judo karate
and all these are very violent things
which now i realise
could really affect our chakras
okay okay
okay uncle moving ahead uncle i
just wanted to know uncle
any specific example that you would like
to quote you know where
mother actually gone and corrected
any yogi or any of her children how
would she
function on that particular front any
specific example that you would like to
put in yes
see um
[Music]
when
in 78 i think so 78 or 79 i don't
remember the year we were in uh
in the tour and that time a yogi
from australia he joined us
and uh
he did not know anything about sahaja
yoga so i used to sit in the car telling
all those
uh
all these mantras and everything
and uh he
uh
Shri Mataji told us that she will give
public programs in maharashtra
so we are rather close and when he went
back he came back with 40 sahaja yogis
from australia
which had never
happened before he went
north south east west
to
to spread sahaja yoga in australia
so he was very close to us
he had taken uh
how do you say liking for our families
to come to our house and all that
so um
he even next time he came
he said that what should i bring for you
and uh
we told him to bring that head we called
it a head for the tape recorder the
main part is the small head on which the
tape moves
and when the tape moves a long time the
head gets erased it gets
less efficient
and that head we did not get it in
bombay
so we had it to get it from abroad or
you know
so
we said okay this and then my father he
he
had a camera and uh he did not have a
flash that time the cameras flash was
separate
so he said bring for him flash and then
when he came he brought flash he brought
cassettes i don't know all those things
and  the head also
and then we said how much you we have to
pay ? He said no this is a present from
me and all and we really didn't want to
take it as a present
then i told Shri Mataji please tell him that
uh
take Shri Mataji he said
what uh did he bring i said
uh all these things and i still remember
we are coming back from bordi
we were in the train
and Shri Mataji was so angry with me she
pulled my ears
literally
and she said
you're doing business in sahaja yoga
it's not a business
it's
sahaja yoga is not a business throw
everything in the sea « samudrat fekun de »
and that time
i put my ears we used to reply to Shri Mataji
and i say Shri Mataji we can throw
everything but this head we don't get in
bombay she said okay you can keep the
head but
don't
uh
keep the other things give them back to
him give them back sahaja yoga is not
a business so this is something which
really
uh she told us and uh
even
before
before i came in uh 23rd
april 85 she told
the how the people get spoiled when you
come to
she specifically told france
but could be even in the west
but
in paris this talk was there
and also how she corrects us in
the guru puja 85 if you want to listen
very very strong words and very
it was my first puja in the west and i
can never forget that
okay so everything
is on the tape
okay okay
next question that i wanted to ask you a
lot of times we hear that you know
deities tend to work for mother
any specific example wherein you would
have experienced this yourself you know
when some deity was
working for mother
yes
now
there was one mr Ayenger – I am
changing the names it’s
better
there was one mr Ayengar who was a
civil engineer
in u.s
when he came to
india
he gave some (visiting) cards to sahaja yogis and
on the card it was written his name and
then
his rates like giving realization one
dollar
uh
curing or something two dollars
something like that
and the people felt a bit uh bizarre a
bit funny about it and started having
headache anyway so
[Music]
Shri Mataji i don't know if they told him
or not
but
we were in prabhadevi it was fourth
floor on kalpana didi's
apartment
we were all sitting and they were trying
very level best for him to go with
Shri Mataji to delhi and somehow things
did not happen
as she wanted
as ah as we tried
but
maybe Shri Mataji
was some playing some tricks
so anyway so he was there and we were
talking and suddenly he said Shri Mataji
it's so difficult to
have you on the telephone
it's easier to contact indira gandhi
than to contact you
by telephone
and we found it all a bit uh
insulting
and uh
i was small so i mean we are just
sitting
and
suddenly it was very tense
uh atmosphere
modi uncle who is uh six feet tall
so he got up and he said to
this mr ayenger
one more word from you
and i'll throw you out of the window
Shri Mataji was there in front
and he said it in such a tone that
i think he meant it
we are on the fourth floor
so this mr Ayanger
he just got up
and he said
bye bye madam to
Shri Mataji and he went away
and we all
you know the the atmosphere
became
less tense
Shri Mataji he said
Shri hanuman talked through mr modi
and then this fellow ayengar
he
had long hair and all that
and he went to i think to Orissa or some
place in the jungles as i told you last
time these yogis in the jungles they all
know shri mataji
the real ones
and they
he met one of them a real one and he
told the story
and this
fellow said do you know whom you
insulted you insulted adi shakti
go and ask for
forgiveness
so he
he he felt so much repented he cut all
his hair he became bald
and he came to say sorry to Shri Mataji
and first time when he came
he
in the airport shri mataji
was to go at some time but there was a
taxi strike and he could not come in the
correct time
second time Shri Mataji it never happens
Shri Mataji went inside just maybe five ten
minutes before
just when she entered  inside he came
so he missed her
and third time also something happened
and then Shri Mataji said
because he insulted me hanumana will
see to it that he will never come in
front of me
so this is something which
is difficult to understand but
it happened even that time there was one
minister whom
shri mataji
people were trying for him
for interview with Shri Mataji and
it never happened
never happened
for some reason
it did not work out so it is just
uh
what we have to
pray that we don't go out of the
good will of Shri Mataji we should
always keep her pleased
and that's what i told before that
our attention should be
on her
so that we we keep her pleased that's
very very important with our
thoughts words and it's this prayer
which
we said just now
just for my understanding you've changed
the name of the person that you're
talking about yes and this person was
never able to meet mother at all
no
not at all
i think we should all take care and
ensure that none of the deities are ever
unhappy
see i'm not saying something which is
out of the blue in when some talks in
Shri Mataji says many times the deities are
around you cannot see them
but they see you and in some place she
says that see they are very happy that i
am telling you the truth
see the vibrations even now you see the
vibrations
they know that i am telling you the
truth and so they are very happy
so these are some of the things which
sometimes is
difficult to mentally understand
but if we just take it into
consideration that she is adi shakti she
can do anything
in 84
Pandharpur shivaratri puja Shri Mataji says
god can do anything
everything
[Music]
so all these small things are it's
nothing for  god
Did I answer your question
yes uncle
You gave an example wherein someone
was not able to meet Shri Mataji
worked
Any specific example wherein
someone who was not able to meet Shri Mataji
Can you give an example wherein
the deities actually worked to get someone
to meet Shri Mataji. Yes in
june  2003
Shri Mataji was
in
Cabella
and
my wife had a
good opportunity to
to be in Shri Mataji’s company to
be with her for some time
and
one day at 2.30
in the morning Shri Mataji said
call Avdhut
somehow they could not contact
me
and so the next weekend when i went
i went there on
friday
and i said i'm here
in case
Shri Mataji wants
i'm here till monday
and uh
we were
uh
there was one sahaja yogini elderly
with whom i had gone out for some
castle work
we came back about 10 10.30 at night
the
it was pitch dark
and in front of the castle
there was hardly any light
so i told this elderly lady you sit here
and i will open the big door the big
door was closed
i will open it from inside
i know how to go
because there was um
when you go through the big door the
left hand side there is a kitchen and on
the right hand side there are big
staircases
so i went through the staircases and i
was about to go up i heard some music
some Bhimsen Joshi or something
and
uh
when i just saw peeped a little bit
on the right hand side  Shri Mataji was
listening to Bhimsen Joshi and
there was sir cp
and
[Music]
shri mataji
was busily listening but when she saw me
she looked at me
i just came out and said to myself Avdhut at
least you should do namaskar so second
time i peeped inside and i did namaskar
to like this
and shri mataji called me
i went there
and Shri Mataji appreciated
some things
and
that time
somehow
i
told Shri Mataji
please get well
because i don't know i felt some
somehow the words came out
mother please get well in
marathi we say « Shri Mataji barya wha »
and Shri Mataji said I am well. I said then it’s alright
that time it was you know the beginning
of this so-called sickness
and all that
drama
so then
we were in the kitchen and Shri Mataji
send a word through a yogi
she said
that
tell the yogis not to worry about my
health
i am working out something very
important thing you have to remember
this i am working out something don't
worry about my health
so all those things which happened
we have to see from that light
who can come in front of Shri Mataji
what we can
offer to her
nothing nothing nothing is by chance
everything is being planned right from
the beginning
though
sometimes we might feel why is it why is
it but every time there is a drama
i always say do not believe what you see
Shri Mataji is much much more
than what you physically see
there is also another incident in which
Shri Mataji
allowed me to come to her
in front of her
it was in greece
during 1999 uh diwali puja
so
we had a folklore dance from
some south of france and i really can't
dance well
but i was so much i wanted to dance in
front of Shri Mataji i danced
she laughed and laughed and laughed
it was the second time first also it
happened in
89 andorra guru puja so anyway
and then she told person was looking
after Shri Mataji she told
this tell Avdhut tomorrow to come to
my room
and what happened was after sometimes
had to
go for the toilet and Shri Mataji went and
people they put
you know the shawls and all that so that
Shri Mataji can walk on that
so i said should i put or not put
i said sometimes it can be slippery and
i don't know anyway finally i got up and
i put my shawl was the last one before
the toilet
and
in
uh
then Shri Mataji was inside and i put and in
front there was this lady
who was attending to
Shri Mataji and
she said as Shri Mataji
has asked you to come
tomorrow morning
then i told
if i would not have put the shawl
i would never have met you
and i would never know that time there
was no mobile or anything
and she said no but when Shri Mataji
wants  to see somebody
nobody can stop
and she doesn't want to see somebody
nobody can bring in front of her
so these are the two instances which i
can say that
i pull my ears it's happened with me
and hope all the time when i was with
Shri Mataji
i met with the right protocol i don't
know
many times i
still
i don't know really i don't know
must be by mother's will only uncle i'm
guessing
yes
beg your pardon
i'm saying uncle if the protocol was
there or not it must be by mother's will
only uncle the way you are telling it i
doubt you know you or me can never
influence how we behave in front of
mother i think it's up to her only
so much i i don't think it's up to us
by listening to you that is what i
realize uncle
because also i think sometimes to be
very frank
uh we were sometimes i feel we are like
a katputli (puppets) in Her hands
how do you say in
english
ventriloquist
means
she talks and we have to open the
mouth like
in
this incident which happened in guru
puja 85
we were to go to the airport
and somebody told us don't go because
there is this uh how do you say the
there is um
a lot of
traffic jam and things like that and we
did not go and Shri Mataji was very angry you can
listen to this talk somebody is in the
left you can really see
it's very very very strong talk
and Shri Mataji said Avdhut why didn't you come
first of all felt so bad that i
did not go
and then she asked me to tell the name
of the person which i did not want
to tell
and she's asking me two three times it
was my like she put  off button
here (in the throat)
i couldn't say anything
i was just
crying and she said now stop crying
just to tell you that the
my voice could not come out
it's something which
when I think about it
and thoughtless
say the least
i can i'll move on to the next
question that i had
okay i just wanted to mother would often
talk about uh
her presence in the collective
she would always say that you should go
to the center
uh meditate with the collectivity i am
always present in the collective so any
specific example that you would like to
quote you know where you felt mother's
presence in the collective
we were  there in rahuri we were just
four of us Shri Mataji, Raul bai one
yogi and myself
and um
[Music]
should be in 78.79
and there were some uh
40 yogis from abroad who were staying
about 25 -30 kilometers away
and
in the evening
Shri Mataji said to this yogi who was
organizing
bring them here bring all of them here
don't keep them far away bring them here
and i heard at least three times
Shri Mataji asking him and somehow
he
he did not
bring and we were just four and next day
we realized that they thought that Shri Mataji
is coming there for puja sakar puja
they had prepared everything
and Shri Mataji was with us
physically
and what happened was because Shri Mataji
did not come and that time there was no
mobile or anything
they did a nirakar puja
and then i realized that Shri Mataji though
physically was with us
spiritually she was with them with the
collective
so
always
whenever we are meeting collectively
Shri Mataji is there Shri Mataji has told
this in different
talks there are some talks really which
i heard so many times
next time i will tell you all those
talks
they could be it could be useful for all
of us
uncle mother would often say that you
know that she would
work upon chakras of yogis during public
programs
any specific instance that you would
like to quote on this particular
front yes when Shri Mataji used to do
public programs
many times she told i take you all on my
kundalini and raise my kundalini
and
once in this Bhartiya vidya bhavan
she told me to put my hand on her agnya
from behind
to take out the vibrations
and
when i put my hand
it was uh
like a big generator
moving
and at one point i could hardly keep my
hand it was just
the vibrations were just flowing out
with a tremendous speed
so Shri Mataji really she works
with her chakras on our
kundalinis
to
give us realization
a small incident
okay okay uncle
uncle mother would often talk about uh
attention
that you know
and i have heard her talking about
attention that
my attention is pure attention
everything works out through that
attention any specific instance that you
would like to quote where you saw this
mother's attention working
yes her attention is
very much different than ours
like in Mahakali puja Shri Mataji talks about
this she said
you should value your attention as i
value my attention
you have to value much more of your
attention
than me because i can work out many
things
with my
attention
so on this point i would just
if i may
don't put your attention
for yogies don't put
on
useless things
wasting of time
like
uh
you know all those new things which have
come up i don't even know the names
twitter instagram and
face time waste time all those things
really it takes our attention away
and
if i may especially to the youngsters i
mean if i may
give some
advice we can say
if you have got time invest yourself
in
translating Shri Mataji’s talks there are so many
talks on amruta
it's not only for the
generations to come but it enriches us
first
because many times we listen to the
talks we then forget about it
even when we listen our attention is
somewhere else and main things we
sometimes forget
so that helps
now
some small things about her attention is
that
we were again the same place 1979
delhi
in 10
ashoka road so once Shri Mataji had a lot of
pain in her left ear
so that time she used to you know
tell us to put finger
you know how she works is different
so she called us then there was another
gentleman
she called us inside there was a Raul bai
putting oil and she was literally in
pain you could feel that she was
uh
you know you could feel that it was a
lot painful
and
at that time this program public was to
start at 6.30 pm
and 6.20 or 25 somebody
came and said Shri Mataji
people have come out in the pandal
uh
it's about 6.30 and Shri Mataji told us
to go out
and Raul bai and
literally five minutes she came out
fully ready
and she was
in this public program
and i was quite perplexed
and i said (o myself)
did Shri Mataji have the pain
or did the pain go away just like this
or Shri Mataji did not have the pain
and it worked in my head for two years
and in 80
i still remember we were in a train
go to
somewhere in near
rahuri and Shri Mataji
was there and I asked Her this question
do you remember this pain she said yes
my pain was there
because what happened was during the
public program for three four hours
there was not a single sign of pain on
her face or anything anywhere
so i thought maybe the pain is gone away
but
i wanted to make sure
so Shri Mataji said when i go to the public
program when i give a realization my
attention is not on
on my pain it is on the yogis on the
people
so
if my attention is not there that thing
does not exist for me
this is something which
difficult to understand
but this is something which really
helps and wherever she puts her
attention
uh it works
like when i was passing my
B. Sc I
was trying to get my first class degree
and uh
out of 600 the first class is 360 and i
got
so 21 marks
uh missing
i was in ncc and
for that i could get 10 marks
and 8 marks as a grace mark so could get
18 marks
so basically i
i missed my first class by three marks
i told Shri Mataji
that time I used to write a lot of letters
to Shri Mataji and i told and
i said i just missed my first class and
samadhi closed her eyes and
[Music]
she thought
why Avdhut didn't get his first class
here in bombay i did not even get my 10
marks in ncc
so i went to this gentleman in bombay i
didn't even know where where this bombay
university is
and i was the head of ncc
in my college and all that
and then somehow to make the story short
fourth day he said you will you will get
your first class because we have got
some rule in which you fit exactly
and he went to the vice
chancellor himself
and got my first class
i got that mark sheet
handwritten mark sheet
so just to tell you that how Shri Mataji
and Shri Mataji told
when she came back she told that she put
her attention
and in many villages she used to tell me
to
tell this incident to
uh
to others
and she since that time i  perfectly
believe that
whenever we have really
something which is
uh
not allowing us to be
[Music]
in our thoughtless state, which is always
trying to have our attention
write (a letter) on Shri Mataji's feet and just
keep it
and
one incident i can tell you
about this is
that this letter
once
after 10 days i
uh buried send it to the sea or river
once one of these letters i had
forgotten
to
[Music]
to this to bury it or something and it
got lost
and this letter i got after four years
but this is after 2011
and
in this letter i got it after four years
and in this letter i had written shri mataji
I am a very angry type of a person please
please take away my anger
and secondly i did not feel that much
joy in my meditation and both these
things she had granted to me
so since that time really if i have any
real problems not
that i have got a cold or something
but
which really disturbs me like all these
divisions
all these different
dramas going on
for this
divisions between the different trusts see Shri Mataji trusted
us so much
if we cannot trust each other how can we
uh belong to any trust i don't
understand we have to trust Shri Mataji
us
human beings so you have to trust
everybody
let Shri Mataji do her job
we have to just
be good instruments
i am a little bit deviating from the
how powerful her attention is
anything which disturbs us just write it
down to Shri Mataji she has told us this
and put it at the feet of Shri Mataji when
we put it we don't put on her
conditions
don't say mother i want you to
do this or do that
like
but Shri Mataji
there is something which is disturbing
me and not allowing me to be in
thoughtlessness not allowing me to be a
good instrument
of
the divine
i put this at your lotus feet please
solve it at your convenience
okay so
it's a bit different subject we will
talk about it uh next
next uh next time
since you've spoken about it so the
letter essentially that you write to
mother
is whatever is troubling you and you
dedicate it to her lotus feet
and urge her
or pray to her that she resolves it in
our own fashion that's it
that's all you do
yes yes you uh
once like
once Shri Mataji told this there was a
leader at that time
uh
[Music]
who used to use
foul language he was put out
of sahaja yoga
and Shri Mataji told my father she told me
this
that she told my father why didn't you
tell me
and he said yes every time i used to
tell (write) and i used to put it at your lotus
feet
so
those things you have to
and when you write you write it not 10
pages just
for me just one page is enough
one page is quite enough
sufficient don't give all the details
and
write without any scratches put it in
front of Shri Mataji's feet as if you're
writing a real letter
okay
does that answer your question what do
you do with the letter later on uncle
then then i put it in um
we can put it in the or we can put it in
the earth, sea or river as as you feel like
okay okay okay but since that time
i make a copy of it and i keep it with
me
so that after 20 -30 years i'll open and
see all those things which
disturbed me at that time and how they
were solved
but do you have those letters with you ? yes
we will share those letters. No those letters which I wrote to Shri Mataji
those letters which troubled me, troubled some
collectivity or anything like recently
when i heard about this
different groups especially in india or
you know
which trouble me really quite a lot
because
i have seen Shri Mataji
[Music]
building up this wall of
of sahaja yoga brick by brick
and when i see that people they are
for some some other reason
they
they are trying to
divide it
it's not okay uncle i i agree with you
that's not okay
uh
okay i'll move to the next question
so the next question essentially is uh
is around uh uncle i just wanted to
understand
you know a lot of times you know Shri Mataji
would be able to sense or perceive
things in advance
so anything that you experienced on this
particular front end
yes i told you exactly before this uh
sahaja marriages ganpatipule
she had seen before and one
very important thing which Shri Mataji has
told
which is very very specific
she says in diwali puja 2003
that sahaja yogis should not worry about
these jobs and other things because they
have got a very very bright future their
destiny will work it out it's a
five-minute talk you can listen to it
many talks gives a lot of warnings like
Shri Mataji
in um
i listen to a lot of talks and they
stick in my mind
like
gum
diwali puja 85  Shri Mataji says sahaja
yoga is so pure nobody can touch it from
outside
you can only touch it from inside
Diwali puja 85 you can listen to that
this is what is happening now
so whatever Shri Mataji says
at least me i don't take it lightly
so many things so many things
she matches exactly what's
anyway so that's there's a topic for the
next
meditation
sure sure uncle
excuse um
just one more thing which i would like
to tell about this um
uh
not to put attention on one single
person
because what happened was
in may
there was one mr
uh
you can call him Deole
so he was for some reason put out of
sahaja yoga
and
when he went out
because Shri Mataji wrote to him a very very
simple letter saying that you shouldn't do
this is not something Sahaj
he took it very bad and went out
and of  his own
and on 6th or 7th of august 1979
two three months afterwards i had to go
to nagpur for my higher studies fire
engineering
postgraduate studies
and
Shri Mataji had called me to take
something for the family
so she had come
just one day before from uk
and just to tell you
we were staying in Vikhroli and  the
satnam apartments  is in cuff parade where
Shri Mataji was living in Kalpanadidi’s house
and my train
was to leave
from  Dadar
at 12 30 in the afternoon
nagpur express
so i had to go early in the morning to
take this uh
some things from Shri Mataji, come back to
vikhroli
take a taxi and go to Dadar
and that time we did not have uh you
know car or things like that you see
they went very early in the morning at
something like 8 30 i
came to
kalpana's house
and um i told i have to go back and you
know it takes at least one and a half
hours from Vikhroli to
this place
anyway so
[Music]
they
tried to wake up Shri Mataji
she
did not wake up second time again
we tried to wake Her up
after half an hour one hour
because i had to go back i didn't want
to miss the train
and i again pulled my ears for waking up
Shri Mataji
and when she came out she was looking
very very
uh very disturbed very disturbed
and i thought oh god
she's disturbed because of me
i woke her up
she said no now though you didn't
disturb me but when these people like
deole when they go out
there is
a vortex (bhovra in Marathi) in
the atmosphere which is created
and
the people who are very close to him
they go down in the bhoghara you know
this bohra  which is the vortex in the in the sea once
you go inside you cannot come out you
can just go
down so i can see them going down and
my heart cries for them
and she said that
this deole
uh
he
was a very
great
bhakta of
shirdi sai baba
Shri Mataji
said okay now i am there shirdi sai baba
is not there Then Shri Mataji give me an
example if i am the inspector or i am a sub
inspector
you come to me
then i become a commissioner you come to
me
and don't go to the sub inspector
so in the same way
those deities they help you to go up
but then
you should
see Shri Mataji
and sometimes
especially i would say in india many
people have this
uh
difficulty to
to
leave their own deities
and those things we have to really
remember
always our main name is Shri Mataji's feet
can we see this
photo number 6d
so the main thing is our attention
should be on the lotus feet of Shri Mataji
and
so that
full attention we should not be
on anybody else
i'm repeating not on anybody else and
not on anything else
our desire should be absolutely pure
and
the attention should be on the
lotus Feet of Shri Mataji
now i am reminded of this arjuna story
wherein they said arjuna why he is the
best
in archery
so Dronacharya (archery teacher )
he said okay i will
reply
to this later on
so he said that there is a bird sitting
on the tree
and you have to just
uh with your bow
and arrow you have to just
put the arrow in the eye of the bird
and he asked all of them
what do you see and they said eyes i see
the sky i see the tree i see the leaves
all of them and then
arjuna's turn came and
he asked him what do you see
so he said i don't say anything i just
see the
i just see the eye of the bird
and he got it
the others they could not get the eye of
the bird is it something like that
our attention should be on the feet of
Shri Mataji
all what Shri Mataji has said
this is
i wanted to touch upon two slightly
emotional topics
and i'm sure it must be difficult for
you you
uh your
father mother everyone was part of the
sahaja yoga family uncle
and uh
i just
wanted to know uncle
how you know
when your
mother passed away your
worldly mother passed away
so
how did mother help you on that
particular how did Shri Mataji help you on that
particular front
yes so in fact
my worldly mother passed away in 84
may 84.
now in 83
we were
my sister was with Shri Mataji taking
care of Shri Mataji’s bags and everything
myself and my father were
on the bus two buses
but Shri Mataji said to my mother
you don't should not come on the tour
you
be at home she was with some sahaja
yogini
then in 84
january suddenly
one night two sahaja yogis came from the
tour
and they said
Shri Mataji wants mr and mrs PAI on
the tour the very next day
and  both of them went
then Shri Mataji said to both of them
especially to my mother you
can come on the tour but never come in
front of me
physically you should not come in front of
me
so she said
all right and then my father also was on
the tour
and this was in february
and then uh
in um
uh
february i think there were
some marriages
and my mother came in front of
Shri Mataji and Shri Mataji really did not like
it and she scolded her
very much
my mother felt very bad
then after
the tour went away
my mother said oh i was feeling so bad i
said don't worry something Shri Mataji is
cleaning
don't worry about it
and this happened in february. Then on march 21st
birthday
i went to Shri Mataji's house
to ask
Shri Mataji if my mother and father can go
to
uk
because my sister was
carrying
and
they wanted the grandparents to come
so i went and asked Shri Mataji at that time
we used to ask
all sorts of
even so many things
Shri Mataji just put a bandhan
my exams are there
so many things small things we used to
ask
so
i told her so Shri Mataji
suddenly said oh your mother is not well
my mother was well
and
on the
4th of 5th of april my mother could not
sleep
she was having breathing trouble
and we did lot of things nothing
happened
and
on the
12th i think of may
we
took her to the hospital for
uh x-ray
and they found that the ventricle had
some problem whatever
and the same night Shri Mataji came in the
dream of
my mother
in the form of sri lakshmi
and she said to my mother
remember one thing leave everything at
my lotus feet
do not worry about
anything
your
children your husband just leave it
to me
i will take care of
all of them and my mother
if Shri Mataji is coming the dream it was
the best thing that could ever happen
like all of us
and uh
then she had a good uh
good
[Music]
sleep and
we
thought
in few days she'll come back home
next night again it was a tuesday night
and Shri Mataji again came in the same form as
lakshmi
and told
my mother
now do you remember what i told you
don't you forget
my mother replied i remember
and
and shri mataji said okay
so again next day
my mother told us this story she was so
happy
on wednesday night
she passed away
and
Shri Mataji later on send a very
beautiful letter to my father which i
still have
a very private letter
and in which Shri Mataji said i tried to
[Music]
tell you in rahuri
but god's will is god's will you cannot
go against his will
later on i realized that
somebody told
that when somebody
passes away very early like she was 56
we have some desires left
and Shri Mataji prepared her
to
uh
for the journey of the last last journey
and later on Shri Mataji said no no she went
up very well no problem
so that's how shri mataji
would
see it before she prepared
and these kind of things i'm sure she
has done in many other things i remember
many other instances
she has done it
but she wouldn't
tell us why and what of things
like one
fellow yogi good yogi from India who came to the west when he
came
he got uh some lung infection and
Shri Mataji send
kerosene from australia for him to put
and Shri Mataji said okay you do what
is necessary from the medical point of
view also do what is necessary and put
this and he got cured quite
rather
fast and then later on
Shri Mataji said
his father was very strict with him
that's why he had a
pressure on the heart and this
because of this
it's sort of cleared
so sometimes we see something bad
happening but there is something always
something good which is
coming out
especially for the sahaja yogis
Shri Mataji
in
october 1985 strasbourg Shri Mataji said
all your lives of all the sahaja yogis
are chiseled out
so if this is the thing
i feel that whatever happens in my life
is
what Shri Mataji wants that should happen
and whatever happens is for my spiritual good
so that you don't get too much elated
and neither you get depressed
when you don't
feel too happy or
unhappy
so this is a small incident
which marked my life
very emotional experience to say the
least
uh also took me into uh
complete deep meditation once again
so um
whether this was about your mother i
also wanted to ask you
uh similar experience that you
uh had during when your father passed away
he was i think a fairly
well-known sahaja yogi
uh many people in bombay actually know
him
so
if you can narrate and relate that
experience also uncle that would be
great
yes he passed away
on the 23rd of
may
and
in
february he wrote a will
and in the will he gave everything to
sahaja yoga
and in the will he had written that
he has
got
like for example
he's got a lot of cassettes he's got
books this that and everything for
sahaja yoga for uh library and this and
that
then he said there are two things
one is this urmila flat in andheri
and one is the land which we had in
karjat. The land in karjat is for the
brother and this andheri flat should be
for sahaja yoga
and he said that if anything
could be changed in other things
that's okay but these two things should
not be changed
and
i took this will to Shri Mataji
in cabella
and Shri Mataji was reading
there was tears coming out of her eyes
She said in Marathi « sagle deon mokle zhale » means he has given everything and
he has freed himself
she said he was
very astute as far as
money was concerned he was
a right-hand man of
sri baba mama who was the chartered
accountant so all his accounts my father used to
take care and
said he was
from money point of view very very
strict you couldn't give anything
no money to anybody if doesn't have any
a receipt
then she said that he could feel his
death coming
to feel his death coming that's why in
february
he wrote this
will
and
in this will he had
written that
there is an executor of the will
and this executor will execute the will
of
of Pai uncle
and
he had nominated
now what happened was till 1999 nothing
was done about this flat
or anything else
i went again to see Shri Mataji and
she was not very happy with this
executor of the will
and she
changed
the executor of the will
and she
nominated mr hari jalan
to execute the will of
Pai uncle
and i think so in one or two years
uh
this
flat was transferred
uh on sahaja yoga's name
and not only that
in
2003 i had an opportunity to go in front
of Shri Mataji
and she said in Marathi « tuzhya babani jivantpani evdhi seva keli
ankhi gelya varti he ghar deon gele » meaning your
father served me so much when he
was alive
and after going he even gave this house for
sahaja yoga
and it was such a big and  again and
again she said in Marathi « aamche ashirwad ahet » meaning All my blessings are with you
yes it is quite
moving
because
because when i
relate to you
i can
literally see all those things all those
moments when i was in Cabella Shri Mataji
reading that letter
the tears coming out of her eyes like
this
and even next time in 2003 also when i
went
Shri Mataji told and
something
very very
heartfelt
so
these are the two things
and uh
this
very flat
Shri Mataji very much wanted it to become
an office
and finally it became an office
and still it is
in the
in
LET’s
hands LET Mumbai
um
i could see that you you became a little
emotional even i got a
little emotional
but
a very nice experience to listen to
uncle um
with this question uncle i think i would
like to end
uh today's session but the mother's
permission uncle uh if we can just go
for a
small meditation session and from there
on we'll end this particular session
and
in the next session we'll try and talk
about your experience post 2011 how was
that like and
certain few pointers that
i want to take clarification from you as
well
uh so with mother's permission uncle
we'll start the meditation session and
post that we will end today's session
yes
thank you thank you
will start the meditation session yes
yes
i was preparing myself
we can all put our right hand on the
sahasrara
massage it
put
on this earth
to uplift
mankind
you have chosen me
chosen us some of us
out of all the human beings existing on
this earth
to be your instruments
let me just be a
beautiful instrument
let me be in your company
let me enter your kingdom
of doubtlessness
doubtless awareness
the door is called as thoughtless
awareness
just let me feel the
joy of sastra
nirananda
slightly raise your hand
the cool bridge is coming out of your
sachara
take it down
there is not nothing much to be done
just say once the third mantra of
sahasrara
[Music]
my
silent meditation for some time
full humility
gratitude
for our divine mother
can you just
say that sing the three mantras
[Music]
[Applause]
i
[Music]
[Applause]
my
[Music]
foreign
wonderful meditation experience after a
colonization
it was a
wonderful session meditation session
uh very good vibration
and uh by mother's grace uh i think
everybody who's listening to program
would have felt
the love and affection and the
dedication that you have for mother the
absolute clarity that you have
or the surrendering that you have
towards mother
the basic idea of this session
essentially is to propagate
what you felt
or the emotions that you felt for mother
when
when when when she spent time with you
and i hope all the listeners and the
people who are listening to the program
all the yogis who are listening to the
program are able to benefit from it
to everyone who's listening this is the
second
episode in the series that we are doing
what we have done here is that uh so uh
you will find the link for the first
session
uh
in the
in the description of this in the
description of this particular video
uh we'll be doing another such session
the details of which will be sent across
shortly to you
and and i think this would be a
four-part series
everyone is more than welcome to listen
and
and then benefit from these sessions in
case you have any questions or queries
you can post it on
the youtube chat section that we have
and we'll try and answer them
whatever is possible in the next session
that we have
so first two sessions no queries are
being answered in case you have any we
will try and address them in the
third and the fourth session that we
have
yes
everyone just uncle yes
yes just one
uh if i may say
uh first of all thank you very much for
the organizers
and thanks to mataji for giving us this
opportunity
to be our instruments
now
uh this one word which you used in so
before we were sort of emotionally
attached to srimathaji
now we have to be spiritually attached
to shrimataji and that is possible only
through meditation
so
in the next session we'll see
what
why should we meditate how should we
meditate
or what are the essentials qualities we
should have to meditate not qualities
but parameters we have to take into
consideration and what happens when we
meditate and after we meditate
and what are the
uh things srimati has awakened in us
and uh
i hope it will be useful for you and
then we can
do a small session on meditation jc
[Music]
always in the airport ananda she used to
hand when put a hand like this
enjoy yourself
so i always remember that's anandatra
just enjoy yourself yes
yes
thank you so much for everyone